# Keystroke Dynamics for user authentication

## Information about this repository

This is the repository that you are going to use **individually** for developing your project. Please use the resources provided in the module to learn about **plagiarism** and how plagiarism awareness can foster your learning.

Regarding the use of this repository, once a feature (or part of it) is developed and **working** or parts of your system are integrated and **working**, define a commit and push it to the remote repository. You may find yourself making a commit after a productive hour of work (or even after 20 minutes!), for example. Choose commit message wisely and be concise.

Please choose the structure of the contents of this repository that suits the needs of your project but do indicate in this file where the main software artefacts are located.

## Packages Required:
The program has only been tested on Windows 10 with the following packages required:

- Numpy
- Scipy
- fastdtw
- sqlite3
- json
- keyboard
- bcrypt

The program will 100% not work on any device with an m1 chip running Big Sur or above due to issues within the keyboard libary. The program also requires root access to be able to monitor keystrokes and to create directories.
 
## Structure:
All code elements are located inside the code folder. This includes the working application and the volumes of test code that has been written. Furthermore, located inside the test code folder is test data generated by me for the purpose of testing and development. My project makes use of a few crucial libraries such as numpy, sqlite, math and scipy among others. 

### Program Structure:
The program is constructed using the OOP philosphy. The program centres around classes. Running the program as of now (15/02/2022) consists of simply running the main.py file. Running it as of now, creates a user data repository and then sets the program running to check every 10 seconds. 

After installing the required packages, the can be run from the command line by doing:

```python
python ./main.py
```

The program will take the keystroke data generated within this interval, convert it into words and then chose 4 words from four different points within this interval data.

Once these words have been chosen, the program first checks if it has seen this word before. If it has then the program will load the old data in and generate the KD signal for the new data and perform normalisation using the a dynamic time warping algorithm. Once this has been done the program then calculates the distance between the two samples using euciladean distance and correlation co-efficant. If both, values produced are within the thresholds, then the user is allowed to continue to use the computer. If not, then the user is locked out.

If the word has never been seen before, the program will first check all other words in the chosen, if all of these match then the program will just add some new word data. Occaisonally, the program will not do this and instead select a different word instead from the sample. If this fails to validate then the program will lock the user out.

